# Frequently Asked Questions about the Real Income & Expens Data Portal

## What is the Real Property Income and Expense Data Portal?

The Real Property Income and Expense Data Portal (RPIE, "R-pie") will
help gather data critical to the accurate and fair assessment of
commercial properties in Cook County. This Data Portal is the CCAO's
first online filing system for industrial and commercial property owners
in Cook County. Any data submitted for one single business property
contributes to the fair and accurate property assessment not just of
that property, but of similar businesses throughout the county. We are
publishing a functional tool for voluntary data collection to provide an
opportunity for taxpayers and their representatives to provide feedback
about how the Office can improve this filing system. If you are
unfamiliar with the Cook County Assessor's RPIE, please read the FAQs
carefully.

***

## Why do I need an RPIE code for every PIN number? 

**RPIE codes are for your protection.** These codes, which are mailed directly to taxpayers, are currently the only way to prevent unauthorized filings. Our office does not maintain a data set associating PINs with digital accounts, so anyone could theoretically file an infinite number of RPIE filings without some sort of authentication. RPIE codes prevent this from happening.

## Is the RPIE mandatory for all properties?

**No.** The RPIE  is voluntary. The more businesses submit their information early in the year, the more accurate our assessments will be. You should encourage people to submit their RPIE form early because it will help us assess businesses in their community more accurately. Business can submit information throughout the year, but, again, earlier is better.

## Does filing the RPIE Online initiate an appeal?

**No.** An appeal can be initiated only by filing the [CCAO'S online
appeal system.](https://www.cookcountyassessor.com/online-appeals)

## Is the RPIE required to process an appeal?

**Yes.** A commercial appeal will not be processed if an RPIE was not filed with our office by the date appeals are due. Appeals calendar and deadlines can be found [here](https://www.cookcountyassessor.com/assessment-calendar-and-deadlines).

## What property types are supported by the RPIE Online Form?

Any property that meets one of the following criteria:
* The property generates rental revenues.
* The property is occupied by a business, or is similar to properties occupied by a business, like a vacant retail space.
* The lessee of a property is responsible for taxes on the PIN.

## What is the deadline for filing the RPIE Online Form?

Since filing an RPIE is voluntary, there is no deadline for filing.
However, The Cook County Assessor requires an RPIE submission in order
to process an appeal on a commercial or industrial property. Therefore,
if you intend to appeal a particular PIN, you should submit your RPIE
filing before the appeal deadline for that PIN. The Cook County Assessor
will not consider late RPIE filings on appeal. The Cook County Assessor
will not accept printed RPIE forms in lieu of an online submission.

**What documents should I prepare to file**

At minimum, you will need:

-   Each PIN &lt;-&gt; RPIE Code combination that was mailed to the
    owner of record.
-   Each Schedule E or Form 8825 associated with each PIN included in
    the filing.

You may also want to have: \* Your rent roll, formatted for the RPIE.
You can download our commercial template here and our residential
template here. \* Information about the building’s addresses. \* The
percentage of the building associated with each of your PINs.

For lessees responsible for taxes, please have:

-   Your lease requiring you to pay property taxes. Can we change this
    to **I lost my RPIE code! I need to edit a submitted filing! I need
    help (with the RPIE form)!**

If you need support completing your RPIE submission, managing your
account, or managing past submissions, please call our office at (312)
443-7550 or email us at
<a href="mailto:RPIEsupport@cookcountyassessor.com" class="email">RPIEsupport@cookcountyassessor.com</a>.

**Does the filing have to be completed by the property owner
themselves?**

**No.** This online tool is designed to support owners, lessees
responsible for property taxes, and their representatives who are filing
for one or mulitple business entities. You can even start a filing and
then transfer the filing duties to another party.

**How many RPIE filings should I submit?**

There should be a 1-to-1 correspondence between your IRS Schedule E/Form
8825, and/or net or triple net lease. For example, a large company that
owns multiple apartment buildings should file a single RPIE filing that
includes all the properties they own. If one individual owns multiple
properties, and filed two IRS tax returns with two Schedule Es attached,
they should submit two RPIE filings.

**Will my data be saved to make future filings easier?**

**Yes!** We have designed this form so that most of the data input in a
given year will carry over to the next year for each PIN.

**If I do not file an RPIE, what are the consequences?**

There are no legal consequences for failing or refusing to file an RPIE.
For those filing for the purpose of a property valuation appeal, per the
Official Rules of the Cook County Assessor, not completing the RPIE form
(using the PDF or online tool) is grounds for an appeal decision of "No
Change.” Property owners and their filing representatives who cannot use
the RPIE Online Form can use the RPIE PDF forms.

**How will the submitted data be used?**

This data will be aggregated and anonymized, and combined with other
data sets to produce internal diagnostic reports. These aggregated
reports will provide The Assessor and his Dputies and Directors with
information about the integrity of the assessment, the accuracy of
assessments, appeals results, RPIE Onling Form participation rates, and
other matters directly related to the valuation of income-producing
properties, alongside other data sources used by the CCAO.  
Data submitted during the beta testing phase will not be used for
property valuation appeals. Data submitted after our beta testing phase
that is associated with a PIN will also be used by analysts processing
an appeal associated with that PIN.

**Is my data private? Safe?**

The CCAO will limit the risk re-identification of anonymized data
through reasonable means.The goal of these methods is that any data
published could not be used to identify a single business entity. Data
used internally will be anonymized and limited in size to prevent
accidental disclosure of private information. Read more in our Privacy
Policy.

<!-- To read more about SB 1379, click here. -->
